For a new task, walk through the architecture ladder in order.
First, can one model call, enhanced with retrieval and examples, complete the task?
Second, if one call is not enough, can you define the steps in advance?
If yes, prefer chaining, routing, or parallelization.
Third, if the task can be divided but the required subtasks appear only during investigation, use orchestrator-workers.
Fourth, use an autonomous agent only when the whole path depends on environmental feedback and the model must keep making its own decisions.
Frameworks can quickly connect model calls, tools, and workflow steps, but extra abstraction can hide the real prompt, model output, and failure.
A framework is fine only when you still understand what happens underneath it.
Before upgrading, save a baseline for the simplest system.
Compare task completion, average cost, latency, and human interventions on common, difficult, and boundary cases.
Break metrics down by task type so averages cannot hide a critical regression.
If the complex system does not produce a stable improvement, return to the simpler one.
Architecture is a measurable iteration, not a one-time declaration.
Chapter recap.
First, test whether one augmented model call can finish the task.
Second, prefer a workflow while the path remains controllable.
Third, let measurable results decide whether to upgrade to an agent.